---
layout: post
title:  "NoteLink"
date:   2015-03-15 00:00:00
categories: post, project
project-types: lead
image: notelink
---

NoteLink is a system allows user to take one camera shot and instantly get the digital document with handwritten annotation. NoteLink utilize sensors on mobile phone and recent printed document history to provide a high accuracy and easy to use capture and access system for handwriting annotation.

Handwriting annotation capture has always been an important technical problem as it can enable many useful use scenario. However, current solutions is either not convenient or require extra device. Those solutions either need a specific environment with not portable equipments, or need specialized device like a pen or a notebook. They introduce extra burden to the user and make it hard for their plan to be adopted in real life.

Our goal is to empower users the ability to quickly and easily capture their handwriting annotation and review them on the original document. To achieve this, we have developed NoteLink, a software system that transform a mobile phone to a portable scanner and extractor for handwritten content. Inspired by how people already use their smartphone,NoteLink allow user to take a picture of their document and automatically extract the handwriting and their location according to the original document. Our app automatically record all the document user printed on their desktop and phone. With the help with accelerometer embedded in the phone, our app warp the image taken to a near upright snapshot of the annotated document, search for and compare with the original document and extract the annotation stroke in the difference.
<div class="mdl-grid">
<div class="mdl-cell my-card-image mdl-card mdl-shadow--2dp" style="background: url({{ 'notelink_1' | asset_path }}) center / cover;">
  <div class="mdl-card__title mdl-card--expand"></div>
  <div class="mdl-card__actions">
    <span class="my-card-image__filename">User take a picture</span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="mdl-cell my-card-image mdl-card mdl-shadow--2dp" style="background: url({{ 'notelink' | asset_path }}) center / cover;">
  <div class="mdl-card__title mdl-card--expand"></div>
  <div class="mdl-card__actions">
    <span class="my-card-image__filename">User take a shot</span>
  </div>
</div>

<div class="mdl-cell my-card-image mdl-card mdl-shadow--2dp" style="background: url({{ 'notelink_2' | asset_path }}) center / cover;">
  <div class="mdl-card__title mdl-card--expand"></div>
  <div class="mdl-card__actions">
    <span class="my-card-image__filename">NoteLink extract annotation</span>
  </div>
</div>
</div>

Click [here](/papers/2015_progress-report_notelink.pdf) to see a progress report that I have written for the project.
